Welcome to JW Broadcasting®.
This month marks ten years
since the first program debuted.
We’ll take a look at the special role
JW Broadcasting has played
in uniting God’s people.
In Part 1 of the episode
of Applying Bible Principles,
James and Linda were too focused
on when the end would come.
We’ll see how they now help others
keep a balanced view of the future.
In Iron Sharpens Iron,
we’ll learn how to put our website
to better use in the ministry.
This is the October 2024 edition
of JW Broadcasting.
When I first began serving at Bethel,
I’d call home to speak with my family
and my mother would always ask,
“Have they told you when the date
of Armageddon is?”
Though she was being humorous
and didn’t expect an answer,
her question reveals what we all long for
—Jehovah’s promised new world.
Maybe you have, in a sense,
asked Jehovah that question,
“How much longer, Jehovah?”
Or you’ve said to Jehovah:
“I’m exhausted.
“I don’t know how much longer
I can keep going.
“Please, Jehovah, when will your promises
for a world of lasting peace,
refreshment, and relief from the pressures
of this world come true?”
We all likely feel this way
from time to time.
What can help us not give up,
not give out, in our spiritual battle?
Note the words of Jesus at Mark 13:29.
Notice what he says: “Likewise also you,
“when you see these things happening,
know that he is near at the doors.”
What things would we see happening?
Prophecy being fulfilled.
When we recognize Bible prophecies
being fulfilled before our eyes,
our faith is fortified.
We see that the end is imminent.
We recognize that we’re almost done.
That helps us not give out.
What are some of these prophecies?
You’re familiar with the prophecies
of earthquakes,
“wars and reports of wars,”
food shortages,
and disease all happening at once.
“You see these things happening.”
We see the diminished love of God
and the deteriorating attitude
of people in general,
as foretold in 2 Timothy chapter 3.
Second Timothy 3:13 says:
“Wicked men and impostors
will advance from bad to worse.”
“You see these things happening.”
As foretold, “this good news
of the Kingdom” is being preached worldwide
—now in over 1,000 languages.
“You see these things happening.”
As a result of Christ’s rule,
the knowledge of Jehovah
is abundantly overflowing.
“You see these things happening.”
And what about Isaiah 45:18?
Here Jehovah calls himself
the “Maker” of the earth,
“who did not create it simply for nothing,
but formed it to be inhabited.”
Today, scientists say that the world
is on the brink of becoming uninhabitable.
They warn that if action to stop
global warming is not taken quickly,
its compounding effects
will become irreversible.
At Revelation 11:18,
the Bible foretold that in our day,
man would be “ruining the earth,”
and it also assures us
that Jehovah will step in
and not let the earth be completely ruined.
Some may wonder how much worse
things will get.
Interestingly, at Luke 17:20,
Jesus said this
—Luke 17:20:
“The Kingdom of God
is not coming with striking observableness.”
This means that world conditions
during the last days
would not be so extreme
that people would be forced to believe
that the end is near.
As Matthew 24:37-39 indicates,
they would still be “eating and drinking,”
getting married,
and able to carry on their everyday lives.
How should this affect us?
It should fortify us not to give up.
At Mark 13:35,
Jesus said we must “keep on the watch.”
This means to stay awake and be on guard.
And in the parallel account in Matthew 24,
Jesus connects this with being ready.
What will help us to do this
when we feel so exhausted?
Where can we get strength
to keep up the fight?
In a word—trust.
We all love Jehovah.
We want to be convinced
of Jehovah’s loyal love for us individually.
Can we trust that he’ll always
be there to help us?
Notice on-screen the assurance Jehovah gives
at Hebrews 13:5:
“I will never leave you,
and I will never abandon you.”
Jehovah has been sustaining us.
Think how he sustains you.
Maybe you’ve experienced
the ravages of a natural disaster;
Jehovah has sustained you.
Maybe you’ve dealt
with the loss of a loved one;
Jehovah has sustained you.
Whatever trial we’ve gone through,
we can see how Jehovah has helped us.
This confirms for us
that he’ll sustain us in the future.
And we have the confidence
that’s stated at Psalm 46:1, 2:
“God is our refuge and strength,
“a help that is readily found
in times of distress.
“That is why we will not fear,
though the earth undergoes change,
though the mountains topple
into the depths of the sea.”
These emphatic expressions leave no doubt
that Jehovah will care for us.
Why is this reminder so important?
Well, verse 6 of Hebrews chapter 13
links trust with courage.
Notice what it says:
“So that we may be of good courage and say:
‘‘‘Jehovah is my helper;
I will not be afraid.
What can man do to me?’”
Notice it doesn’t say our  or their  helper.
It says “my helper.”
We love Jehovah.
We can also be absolutely convinced
that Jehovah loves us
and will help us individually.
At times, it can be difficult
to trust that Jehovah loves us personally
and will act in our behalf.
What can help build our trust
in Jehovah’s love?
Let’s discuss three ways.
First, Proverbs 15
—Proverbs 15, notice verse 9:
“Jehovah detests the way of the wicked one,
but he loves the one
who pursues righteousness.”
“He loves the one
who pursues
[or, chases after] righteousness.”
He knows we can’t be perfectly righteous.
But he loves us for trying our best,
as he said, ‘for pursuing righteousness.’
He loves us because we don’t quit.
We can trust that he’ll never abandon us
because we don’t give up
in pursuing righteousness.
Second, pour out your heart to Jehovah.
Lamentations 2:19 says this
—Lamentations 2:19:
“Pour out your heart like water
before the face of Jehovah.”
It doesn’t say,
“Pour out your mind” or “your thoughts”
but “pour out your heart”
—that includes our feelings,
our concerns, our anxieties.
We pour out our heart
like one pours out water
—not holding anything back.
When we express to our heavenly Father
our love and appreciation for him,
when we tell him our concerns and desires,
and when we ask for his direction,
we show that we value
our friendship with him.
What will be the result for you?
The more you pour out your heart like water
and feel his personal response to you,
the more you’ll sense his love for you
and the more you’ll trust
that he’ll never abandon you.
Your gratitude for Jehovah’s
enduring love will increase.
And, third, remember that trials
do not mean a loss of Jehovah’s favor.
Our enemy knows that feeling close to Jehovah
is the source of our strength.
So he’ll try to undermine our confidence,
and he hopes that we break away from Jehovah.
For example, when Job
was undergoing a severe trial,
his false comforters lyingly said
that the reason for these trials
was that he’d lost Jehovah’s favor.
Jehovah reminded Job to look at creation
and to see His love and wisdom.
How did faithful Job respond?
He said at Job 42:5:
“My ears have heard about you,
but now I do see you with my eyes.”
We may wonder if we’ve lost Jehovah’s favor.
We should ask Jehovah to help us see him
and see his loyal love for us every day.
Ask him to help you use this trial
as a stepping stone to love
and trust him even more.
We’ve discussed one way
we get ready for the upcoming events
—build our trust that Jehovah
has loyal love for us individually.
Trusting that Jehovah will never abandon us
gives us the strength to keep up the fight
and keep on the watch.
At Ephesians 6:16,
faith, or trust, in Jehovah
is compared to a shield
—a shield “with which you [can] extinguish
all the wicked one’s burning arrows,”
or all of Satan’s spiritual attacks.
For example, when we hear lies about Jehovah,
his organization,
and those he’s appointed to take the lead,
we will not be shaken.
We won’t give up or give out.
We know the prophecy
at Matthew 24:45 has been fulfilled.
Jehovah has lovingly provided a slave
who’s “faithful and discreet.”
We recognize that Jehovah
provides spiritual food and direction
through this body of men at the right time.
We’re not left floundering
or trying to find our way.
Therefore, we remain obedient
and responsive to the direction we receive.
We never dismiss it,
even if it doesn’t appear practical
from a human standpoint.
Trusting in Jehovah’s loyal love
has saved his people in the past.
At 2 Chronicles 20:1, 2,
it tells us that Jehoshaphat
learned that a coalition of nations
—“a large crowd . . . from the region
of the sea”—
were coming against him.
Jehoshaphat already had the habit
of turning to Jehovah.
“He resolved to search for Jehovah.”
How did he and his faithful subjects do this?
Jehoshaphat poured his heart out
like water to Jehovah.
Notice in verse 12
how he expresses
his complete trust in Jehovah:
“For we are powerless before this large crowd
that is coming against us;
“and we do not know what we should do,
but our eyes are toward you.”
How did Jehovah respond?
Notice verse 15.
Jehovah sent Jahaziel to reassure them:
“Do not be afraid or be terrified
because of this large crowd,
for the battle is not yours but God’s.”
The strategy that Jehoshaphat followed
didn’t seem practical
from a human standpoint.
Jehoshaphat appointed singers
dressed “in holy adornment”
to praise Jehovah.
And how unusual that he put them
in front of the armed men!
Were they singing songs about how Jehovah
defeated their enemies in past wars?
No.
They sang about Jehovah’s loyal love.
What was the result?
Jehovah confused their enemies,
and they attacked each other.
What lessons can we learn from this account?
Trusting Jehovah includes
trusting his representatives.
The lifesaving direction we receive
from Jehovah’s organization
may not appear practical
from a human standpoint.
But we recognize
the fulfillment  of the prophecy
at Matthew 24:45
about “the faithful and discreet slave,”
and we’re ready to obey
any instruction they provide.
Yes, getting ready includes building trust
and being convinced that Jehovah
will deliver us from the wicked one.
Trusting Him will help us understand
the prophetic role
of “the faithful and discreet slave”
during this time of the end
when Jehovah is using them
to provide lifesaving direction.
This direction is helping us to stay ready.
Jehovah has sustained us in the past,
and he sustains us now.
Seeing these things happening
can also fortify and strengthen us.
Many of you have been fighting
to “keep on the watch”
for many years.
Now the end is clearly in sight.
We don’t want to give up now.
Notice the reassurance at Galatians 6:9
—Galatians 6:9:
“So let us not give up in doing what is fine,
“for in due time we will reap
if we do not tire out.”
Because of our imperfect flesh
and the efforts of Satan
and this wicked world,
we must constantly battle
negative influences.
Some of you dear brothers and sisters
must fight hard every day
to maintain your relationship with Jehovah.
Don’t give up!
Your fight has not been in vain.
You’ve made the right choices.
Jehovah has seen your loyal love for him,
and he treasures your devotion.
Time and time again,
you’ve made sacrifices
and left your comfort zone
to give Jehovah your best,
to stay active in the ministry,
to keep taking in spiritual food,
and to teach your children
how to speak about Jehovah.
Jehovah loves you dearly for this
and will loyally continue
to help you until the battle is won.
Do not give up now!
And you young ones,
Jehovah loves you too.
He knows that you’re growing up
in a world that’s broken.
He knows that it can be hard for you
to maintain hope for the future.
Please, never forget that your God,
your heavenly Father, loves you dearly.
Never forget that your future is bright.
Whether we’re young or old or in between,
we will not give up.
We’re so close.
We see these things happening
with our own eyes.
So we’ll keep on the watch,
we’ll trust Jehovah with all our hearts,
we’ll trust Jehovah’s arrangements,
and we will not give out
in our spiritual battle,
because we will reap
rich blessings soon—very soon.
Can you believe it’s been ten years
since JW Broadcasting began?
That’s 120 monthly programs!
These programs have unified
and strengthened Jehovah’s organization.
In the next video, we’ll be reminded
of some gems we’ve received
and we’ll hear personal stories
that illustrate the impact
JW Broadcasting has had on the brotherhood.
We warmly welcome you,
dear brothers and sisters,
for our first
JW Broadcasting® monthly program.
“Christian neutrality.”
Modesty.
“Do the Math.”
“Deal With Anxiety
One Day at a Time.”
“[Children] are an inheritance
from Jehovah.”
Jehovah loves each one of us
despite our appearances
or imperfections.
A marriage that has good patterns
shaped by Jehovah’s principles
looks like this well-balanced family circle.
Though we’re tainted with sin,
Jehovah does not discard
imperfect humans.
We may worry about
what might seem to be big tests,
only to find
that they’re not as overwhelming
as we feared they would be.
Each individual grain of sand
reveals distinct beauty. . . .
That is how Jehovah sees each of you.
My personal favorite thing
about JW Broadcasting
has to be that there are videos
on really anything,
whether it’s something
to help me in school
or something to help me
in my spiritual life.
We like to theme our family worship.
Recently,
we did a family worship on neutrality.
And we found a lot of great videos
that specifically had to do with that.
I use my device quite a bit,
and I don’t like it to get in the way
of schoolwork and family time.
So the video has really helped me
manage my screen time so it doesn’t
get in the way of those things.
Being able to see brothers and sisters
from all over the world,
all different ages, all different backgrounds
serving Jehovah
—it’s helped me personally.
But I think it’s really helped the kids
in setting their own spiritual goals
and being able to see
that there’s so much that can be done
in Jehovah’s organization,
no matter what their interests are,
and that Jehovah can take care of them.
We feel part
of Jehovah’s worldwide organization.
And, you know, at the end of the broadcast,
they say, “We love you, friends.”
There’s really no substitute for that.
As a special pioneer,
the pandemic lasted so long.
And I had various sources of stress.
But, fortunately,
it was the direction
from the discreet slave,
a motherlike organization,
that gave us direction
every step of the way.
That was great.
The Governing Body taught us principles
and gave us so much support.
It’s been such a joy
to hear in the Governing Body updates
that many inactive ones are coming back.
I visited a single brother
who was inactive for 24 years.
And he said several times
how he wanted to come back.
I was really happy that I acted
on the message
from the Governing Body updates.
It really strengthened my faith.
In one Governing Body update from 2022,
they highlighted our return
to the in-person ministry.
I felt like a brand-new publisher
when we went out
in the field ministry again.
I felt like a baby, a toddler, in a way.
So my wife and I
prayed a lot to Jehovah
for us to be able
to have good conversations
and to be able
to muster up the courage needed.
When we actually went
from house to house,
to our surprise,
householders were willing to listen.
We felt the support of the holy spirit
and felt the kindness and help
from the Governing Body
during the pandemic.
So this gives us the motivation to overcome
any obstacle in our way,
no matter what the future holds.
I’m really appreciative of that.
I got baptized when I was 25 years old.
What contributed to me becoming inactive
was the lack of Bible study,
neglecting my meeting attendance,
and some bad associations.
I remained inactive for ten years.
The JW Broadcasting program
that helped me to return to Jehovah
was the program from February 2016,
where we find the experience
of Brother Derrick,
who similarly had strayed away
from Jehovah.
But he recognized
that he had made a big mistake,
which caused him many problems.
So I could relate to Brother Derrick.
And so, I said,
“Why can’t I return to Jehovah?”
That video helped me fix matters
and get close to Jehovah little by little.
We’ve been able to watch
Gilead School talks
and some broadcasts as a family.
It has helped us to expand our friendships
with our brothers in the congregation.
I remember a Gilead School talk
that was given by Brother David Splane
with the theme
“If You Look for It, You Will Find It.”
That taught us that when we want
to expand our friendships
with our brothers in the congregation,
we should not focus on their defects,
but we should look more
at their good qualities.
So that helped us as a family
to remain united
with all those in the congregation.
I really like everything
that comes out on JW Broadcasting.
But what I love the most
are the experiences
of our brothers and sisters
who remain steadfast
and keep their faith in Jehovah.
I love family worship so much
because we get to sit down as a family
and practice some Kingdom songs,
read a Bible story,
or watch the broadcast for the month.
The first time I went to a convention
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
it was like ten thousand people.
When I went in there and I saw
all these different faces
and different colors,
it was like Jehovah showing me:
“Hey, Rafika,
“remember you were asking me
about all different people getting together
“and being one?
See, I’m not partial;
they do get along; we are unified.”
To know that you have
a heavenly Father
who cares about you
—that was the best feeling on earth.
I never thought that God had a name.
And ever since that day on,
I never forget Jehovah’s name.
It’s superglued in my heart.
Our love for Jehovah
and our determination
to live by his standards
are being tested each day.
And yet,
because we’re being well-fed spiritually,
we have everything we need
to meet those tests with joy.
Dear brothers and sisters,
please be assured
of the warm love
of the Governing Body
and our prayers in your behalf.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting®.
What program was special to you?
Do you remember one?
We encourage you
to rewatch the spiritual food
that’s been presented in past programs.
And we thank Jehovah
for making all this possible.
Have you ever watched the news
and thought: ‘Is this it?
Is this the beginning
of the great tribulation?’
In a previous episode
of Apply Bible Principles,
James and Linda learned
to change their focus and maintain joy.
Now they’ll help a young brother do the same.
We can’t control when the end will come,
but we can control who we are when it does.
Maybe like Thulani, you wonder
if the sacrifices you made were worth it.
Francis Páez del Rosario
made sacrifices as an accomplished musician
to focus on the Kingdom.
Her life story was featured
in the August 2005 Awake!
Let’s see how she views her choices
in the next segment.
My dad sold the house
to buy musical instruments
so that us children
could become great artists.
And we achieved just that.
We made it to the top.
My dancing style became so famous
that they would advertise
with only a picture of me.
Wherever they put that image,
everyone knew Los Rosario would be there.
I really liked dancing.
I loved it.
I loved the makeup, the clothes, the stage.
That was me.
But after the concerts were over,
I felt empty.
That’s nothing like the happiness
that comes from knowing
you’re doing what’s right before Jehovah.
That happiness doesn’t fade,
and it will always be there
because it comes from Jehovah.
When I decided to leave the group,
my dad was not pleased.
He had worked so hard for it.
Things got, um,
difficult.
This opposition really pained me
because my dad and I
had always enjoyed a beautiful friendship.
We were very close.
Despite the way he treated us,
we never disrespected him.
We were always kind to him.
And because of that,
little by little he started to soften.
One day, one of my sons asked,
“Why don’t you invite him to a meeting?”
My dad’s eyes lit up, and he said,
“I’ve been wanting to go for some time now.”
And we started studying with him.
He knew that he had found the truth.
He enrolled in the school;
he gave his first part.
So the truth really touched him deeply.
I asked him one day during the study:
“Dad, tell me, what do you think now?
“Do you think I made a good decision
in leaving the group
“and following this path
and dedicating my life to Jehovah?”
He looked at me and said:
“You did well.
“You made a very good decision.
I only wish I had been able
to raise all of you in the truth.”
Dad saw his children succeed,
accomplish so much,
and see their dreams come true.
But he realized that that wasn’t everything.
He realized that true happiness
comes from serving the Creator, Jehovah God.
It reminded me
of the words of the apostle Paul
at Philippians 3:8.
He said that he considered what he did before
“as a lot of refuse.”
We felt the same.
We were willing to leave everything behind.
After a concert,
there was that emptiness inside.
It’s so different to the way I feel
after a meeting with the brothers and sisters
or after I give a Bible study
or after a day serving at Bethel
with Roberto, my husband.
That happiness doesn’t go away.
There’s nothing better than that.
Francis doesn’t focus on what could’ve been
but on the blessings of the present.
She’s seen the seeds of truth
take root within her family
and now happily serves as a commuter
at the Dominican Republic branch
with her husband.
She isn’t the only one
who followed this successful formula.
Let’s see who else from the Bible
followed the same pattern
in this morning worship.
Our Scripture text and article highlight
the importance of submission
and why we should submit to Jehovah.
Of course, we find it a pleasure
to submit to Jehovah because we love him.
That’s why we submit to Jehovah.
But there is that occasion
when submitting to Jehovah is difficult.
It’s hard.
Perhaps we have to take a firm stand
in front of opposers.
We have to stand up for Jehovah.
That means we stick out from the world.
That’s hard.
Or perhaps we have to change something
in our personal life
to bring our life more in harmony
with Jehovah’s will and standards.
That’s hard.
Or perhaps we want
to give wholehearted support
to an organizational adjustment
or arrangement
that we don’t fully understand.
That may be hard.
So, what can help us?
Confidence that God is with his people.
If we know that God is with his people,
with us,
then we know he will bless us.
Each time we’re going to make
any adjustment in our life
or submit to Jehovah’s way of doing things,
we’re going to get a blessing.
Can we have such confidence?
Absolutely.
In fact, we can say
that Jehovah gives us signs,
or solid evidence, that he is with us.
For example, let’s open our Bibles
to Isaiah chapter 7.
Let’s go back in time
and review this historical account
in Isaiah chapter 7.
The background is in verses 1 and 2,
during the days of King Ahaz.
Let’s see what we can learn.
“Now in the days of Ahaz son of Jotham
son of Uzziah, the king of Judah,
“King Rezin of Syria
“and Pekah son of Remaliah,
the king of Israel,
“came up to wage war against Jerusalem,
“but he could not capture it.
“A report was made to the house of David:
“‘Syria has joined forces with Ephraim.’
“And the heart of Ahaz
and the heart of his people
began to tremble, like the trees
of the forest shaking in the wind.”
Well, it’s true;
the situation was terrifying.
Both the king of Israel and the king of Syria
joined forces.
They declared war on Judah.
Why?
They wanted to dethrone Ahaz as the king
and replace him with another man, perhaps
one who was not in the line of David.
Well, what a triumph that would be for Satan
if he could install
his own diabolical dynasty
on the throne in Jerusalem!
Would Jehovah allow that?
What did Ahaz do?
What effect did it have on him?
Did he show faith and confidence in Jehovah?
He began to tremble in fear.
Verse 2 says tremble in fear,
“like the trees of the forest shaking
in the wind”—no faith at all.
So, what does Jehovah do?
Well, verse 11,
Jehovah continued speaking to Ahaz:
“Ask for a sign from Jehovah . . . ;
[make it] as deep as the Grave
or as high as the sky.”
‘Ahaz, just ask for a sign.
I want to help you.’
And what does Ahaz say?
‘No, I’m not going to ask for a sign.’
So Jehovah says: ‘What?
‘You’re not going to ask for a sign?
Well, I’m going to give you a sign.’
And that’s in verse 14:
“Therefore, Jehovah himself
will give you a sign:
“Look! The young woman
will become pregnant
“and will give birth to a son,
and she will name him Immanuel.”
Jehovah assures Ahaz
that He will protect the line of David,
not just with words, notice, but with a sign.
‘You’re going to have this son.
You’re going to see a boy named Immanuel.’
And that name is not just random.
The name means something.
The name means “With Us Is God.”
‘Ahaz, with us is God.
‘I’m not going to allow the covenant
that I made with David to be broken.
Ahaz, I don’t tell lies,’ Jehovah says.
‘I don’t tell lies to David’ (Psalm 89:35)
—a sign.
What happens?
Verse 16, Jehovah gets more specific:
“Before the boy knows how to reject
the bad and choose the good,
“the land of the two kings whom you dread
will be completely abandoned.”
So, notice, that’s exactly what happened.
The birth of Immanuel held true,
and before the boy was old enough
to know between good and bad,
those two kings, Pekah and Rezin,
were killed.
They were out of the picture.
Why?
Because God is with his people.
That’s the lesson: Immanuel.
Jehovah goes further, chapter 8 and verse 10.
And what a warning this is for all of us
and for all of those
who want to try to oppose
Jehovah’s way of doing things!
Notice chapter 8 and verse 10.
There’s no conspiracy that can win
or somehow interrupt Jehovah’s purpose.
Verse 10 says:
“Devise a plan, but it will be thwarted!
“Say what you like, but it will not succeed,
for God is with us!”
—a warning to all those who oppose Jehovah.
In the days of Hezekiah,
you had the Assyrians—185,000 Assyrians.
‘Fine!
Camp out near Jerusalem;
you’re going to die.’—185,000 died.
Why?
Because clearly God is with his people
and the royal line of David.
No conspiracy will succeed.
So, what does this mean for you and me?
What does this mean for us?
Does it have meaning?
Can we have confidence
that God is with us today?
Now let’s open our Bibles
to Matthew 1:23,
Matthew 1:23.
Here we have now the angel
speaking to Joseph about the birth of Jesus.
But notice what he says in verse 23:
“‘Look! The virgin will become pregnant
and will give birth to a son,
“‘and they will name him Immanuel’
[there it is again],
which means, when translated,
‘With Us Is God.’”
Do we see the connection?
The name Immanuel comes up again,
and this time it represents Christ Jesus
—his role, his leadership, his rulership—
the title given to Jesus.
Do we see the connection?
The prophecy about Immanuel
is completely fulfilled in Jesus.
He rules as our heavenly King.
And because of the blessing
and the protection of his rulership,
we have every reason to declare
with confidence today,
“With us is God.”
Do you see the signs?
Do you see the evidence that Jehovah
is giving us to prove he is with us?
Do you see Jesus living up
to that wonderful name, Immanuel?
For example,
several weeks ago,
we had a report from the Writing Committee.
And despite the obstacles of the past year
—do you recall that report?—
the work in the Writing Department,
Art Department,
MEPS, Text Processing,
and Translation Services didn’t stop.
It didn’t even slow down.
Bible translations in 2019, 33 were released;
in 2020, 33 were released.
Add the comments from Wednesday
about a country
that is now having
more and more Bible studies
and an increase in interested ones
and baptisms
—these are more than just updates.
These are more than just statistics.
Do we see them as evidences
that “with us is God”
and that he is backing us up
in our undertakings?
That’s what we want to understand.
No, we’re not perfect.
We’ll get there at the end
of the Thousand Year Reign.
But compare the leadership and rulership
of Immanuel, Christ Jesus,
with the world’s leadership.
Look what we have.
It’s wonderful to contemplate.
So, what’s the lesson for you and me?
Don’t miss the clear evidence
that God is with us.
Keep your spiritual vision sharp and clear.
So here’s a tip.
After reading a portion of the Bible,
ask yourself: ‘How did Jehovah
‘keep his word in this situation?
How does this show God is with us today?’
Then take that knowledge and assimilate it
into your own life
and personal circumstances.
Build your confidence
in the situation that you are in.
So, what have we learned?
(1) When we know that God is with us,
we are convinced
that he will bless us every time
we have to bring ourselves
into submission to Jehovah.
And (2) in Ahaz’s day,
Jehovah assured him
that He would protect the line of David,
not just with words, but with a sign:
a boy, Immanuel, “With Us Is God.”
Today, Jesus, in his role as Immanuel,
rules as our heavenly King.
And because of the blessing of his rulership,
we have every reason to declare
with confidence: “With us is God.”
The sign of Immanuel is all around us.
The question is,
Do we see and appreciate the evidence?
Jehovah has never abandoned his servants,
and he will not start with you.
Keep looking for the evidence
that he is with you now.
Next in our program,
we’ll hone our skills in the ministry
by using our website in the next installment
of Iron Sharpens Iron.
Hi!
I am Jacob.
Welcome to “Iron Sharpens Iron.”
Being an effective minister
means being familiar with our message
and the tools we use to share it.
One of those tools
is  JW Library®.
It allows us to download,
organize, and study our publications.
I’ve got tons of notes with gems
from personal study.
Another tool is jw.org.
It’s special
because of a powerful search engine
and the ability to easily switch languages.
It’s the first place
many interested people search
for more information.
These features make it
an invaluable tool for our ministry.
But how can it make us better?
Let’s see in this demonstration.
Is everything OK?
Sorry.
Something just reminded me of my dad.
No need to be sorry.
Do you want to talk about it?
The smallest things remind me that
he’s not here.
One moment I’m fine
and the next in tears.
There is something that helps me
when I get overwhelmed.
It’s a promise for our future.
“And he will wipe out every tear
from their eyes,
“and death will be no more,
neither will mourning
“nor outcry nor pain be anymore.
The former things have passed away.”
This scripture has gotten me
through some of the worst times in my life.
But there’s also an amazing article
that goes through each piece of the promise.
Our sister could have used  JW Library
to look up the scripture,
and that would be fine.
But by using jw.org,
she had the scripture,
related articles,
and videos right at her fingertips.
The search page acted as her guide.
Depending on the language you choose
on jw.org,
the search results can vary,
since not every article or video
is available in all languages.
But you will find something helpful
related to your entered scripture.
She could focus on really listening
and being a compassionate person.
What if she didn’t have
a scripture in mind to share?
Let’s see what she does now.
Here’s a video of those
who felt the pain of losing a loved one,
and this is how they coped.
Again, effectively searching with jw.org
proved helpful.
Did you notice her search terms?
She chose words specific to the situation
but general enough to encompass
a variety of articles and videos.
If she only typed in “death,”
articles on Jesus’ death
and being afraid of death
would be featured
—not helpful in this situation.
But by focusing the topic,
the right article or video is a click away.
And remember the benefit of using jw.org?
Her workmate
can now explore the site on her own.
Now, what can we do
if the householder speaks
a different language?
[Speaking Chinese]
Wow!
Your Chinese is pretty good.
That’s pretty much all I got.
Where are you visiting from?
Can I show you how to find more answers
from the Bible?
Sure.
On this website,
you will find the digital version
of the brochure you have and many others.
And if you want to read the site
in a different language,
you tap here.
Here’s Mandarin.
Thank you!
You’re welcome.
We give people the Bible’s powerful message
in the language of their heart.
So take time to get familiar with jw.org.
Why not practice searching
your favorite scriptures
and seeing the related articles
that come up?
Or you can rehearse switching the website
to a language others commonly speak
in your area.
By sharpening our skills,
we can focus on the people in front of us
and help them get to know our God, Jehovah.
Practice these skills, and small interactions
can turn into meaningful conversations.
This month’s music video
shows how small acts of kindness
can blossom into something unexpected.
When I drive my car or I take a train,
there’s an angry world out there.
Each day arrives, and so many lives
have heavy loads to bear.
Then Jehovah’s words come back to me,
‘Be patient, calm, and kind,
And no matter where, say a silent prayer
for a peaceful state of mind.’
Living peacefully in a peaceless world
is easier said than done.
But if you can do it now, just imagine
how it’ll feel when the new world comes!
Then I get to work, and the day seems good,
but I’m feeling things might change.
Without a doubt, the storm breaks out,
but I’m keeping out of range.
I recall the words that I read before:
‘Life’s more than what you see’—
That ‘Behind the scorn may be a heart
that’s torn and in need of sympathy.’
Living peacefully in a peaceless world
is easier said than done.
But if you can do it now, just imagine
how it’ll feel when the new world comes!
It’s never an easy ride
When you’re going against the tide.
In a world that’s lost and torn apart,
‘The God of peace will guard your heart.’
Then the weekend comes, and we’re taking
turns sharing good news door to door,
But something someone heard brings
an angry word, and we hear the lion roar.
With the Bible’s words speaking loud
and clear, we prepare to ‘take our leave.’
There’s “no wood” about, so “the fire
goes out,” and we go our way in peace.
Living peacefully in a peaceless world
is easier said than done.
But if you can do it now, just imagine
how it’ll feel when the new world comes!
Living peacefully in a peaceless world
is easier said than done.
But if you can do it now, just imagine
how it’ll feel when the new world comes!
The kind and peaceful way
we treat our neighbors
can move them to serve God.
We learned in this program that as
Bible prophecy is fulfilled before our eyes,
our trust in Jehovah grows.
We help others gain that same trust
by preaching the good news
using the latest tools.
We trust that Jehovah values
our sacrifices to put the Kingdom first.
And we trust that he’ll fulfill
all his promises in due time.
This month’s postcard comes from Malaysia,
a Southeast Asian country
renowned for its diversity.
There are quiet farmlands,
bustling cities,
densely packed forests,
and calming coastlines.
You’ll find a wide variety of creatures
like pygmy elephants,
proboscis monkeys,
and rhinoceros hornbills.
Malaysia is home to wide ethnic diversity,
displaying an amazing variety of clothing,
languages, and delicious foods.
Missionaries arrived
in the country in the 1930’s,
and the truth began to spread.
In the early 1950’s,
the first congregation was formed.
Some of the missionaries
conducted 15 Bible studies a month.
Our brothers and sisters
still find many righthearted people.
The over 5,000 publishers
average almost one Bible study per publisher!
Many studies are conducted in longhouses,
a collection of simple family homes
near the water,
combined together and raised with stilts.
Proverbs 9:3 says:
“[Wisdom sends] out its female servants
to call out from the heights above.”
You might say the sisters in Malaysia
take that verse literally,
preaching high on Mount Kinabalu
and across cable bridges
stretched over the forest.
The 89 publishers
of the Keningau Congregation
send their warm love
and greetings to you all.
From the world headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.